h2. Heroku

endprologue.

h3. Heroku pros and cons

Heroku is a great service to deploy and run Ruby on Rails applications.

nimbleShop has taken extra steps to ensure that deploying nimbleShop on heroku is smooth. It does not mean that nimbleShop applications will not run on rackspace or other hosting providers.

Now lets look at some of the features/cons which are most discussed.

h4. Dyno Idling

One of the biggest complaints about heroku is that using free account means your users will have a slower web experience. That happens because of dyno idling .

> Apps that have only 1 web dyno will be idled out after a period of inactivity. The web dyno will be shut down. When a request comes in to an idled app your web dyno will be automatically spun back up, causing a few second delay for this first request. Subsequent requests will perform normally.  Apps that have more than 1 web dyno are never idled out. Workers dynos are never idled out.


Note that dyno idling never happens if you have a paid dyno which costs $35 per month.

h4. Avoiding dyno idling

So now the obvious question is what are the ways of avoiding dyno idling. Stackoverflow has "a good answer":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5480337/easy-way-to-prevent-heroku-idling on this topic.

h4. Free https account

During the testing stages you can use https://myapp.heroku.com . This is great for testing your application before going and purchaing SSL certificate.

> SSL can be turned on for any .heroku.com domain by enabling the Piggyback SSL. An app specific SSL certificate is not required for Piggyback SSL. The *.heroku.com wildcard SSL certificate is used for all apps.

h4. Unicorn on heroku

If you are using heroku then you might be interested in "this":http://blog.railsonfire.com/2012/05/06/Unicorn-on-Heroku.html article which discusses how to get performance boost by running unicorn on heroku. Just to be clear we have not used this technique ourselves.

h3. Deploying the application on heroku

For the purpose of this discussion let's assume that I want a store at +www.trishil.com+ . So in this case the application name which will be deployed to heroku will be +trishil-production.herokuapp.com+. Follow this article(yet to be written) to configure your DNS so that +www.trishil.com+ points to +trishil-production.herokuapp.com+ .

h4. Creating rails application

"Follow the instructions mentioned here":http://nimbleshop.org/getting_started.html and create a rails application. For me the the name of application is +trishil+. It must be different for you because +trishil-production.herokuapp.com+ is taken by me.

h4. Changes to Gemfile

Open Gemfile of your application and add following lines.

<shell>
group :production, :staging do
  gem 'pg'
  gem 'thin'
  gem 'fog'
end

group :development, :test do
  gem 'sqlite3'
end
</shell>

Notice that in the last line I moved the line +gem 'sqlite3'+ inside the group +:development, :test+. Heroku does not work well with +sqlite3+ gem so ensure that this gem is only present for +development+ and +test+ group.

h3. Using push2heroku gem

At "BigBinary":http://bigbinary.com we use +push2heroku+ gem to deploy to heroku. You do not have to use it. If you are familiar with how to deploy to heroku then you can skip to next section. However if you are curious to see how easy it it to deploy with +push2heroku+ gem then read on.

h4. Adding push2heroku gem

Open Gemfile and add following code

<shell>
group :development, :test do
  gem 'push2heroku'
end
</shell>

Now run +bundle install+ .

h4. push2heroku.yml file

Copy "this":https://gist.github.com/3098161 file and save it as +config/push2heroku.yml+ .

Since pictures are stored at "amazon s3" put in proper s3 bucket name, s3 access key id and s3 secret access key in the +config/push2heroku.yml+ file.

h4. Deployment

Now inorder to deploy just execute

<shell>
bundle exec rake push2heroku
</shell>

+push2heroku+ has some more features so please go through the "README":https://github.com/neerajdotname/push2heroku/blob/master/README.md .

h4. Deploying to heroku without push2heroku

If you do not want to use +push2heroku+ gem then follow the instructions given below to deploy your application to heroku.

<shell>
gem install heroku
gem update heroku
</shell>

h4. Deploying from production branch

In the example below I would be deploying from +production+ branch . But you do not have to have +production+ branch. You can deploy from +master+ branch too. Just replace +production+ with +master+ in the commands that I show below.

<shell>
git checkout -b production
</shell>

h4. Create hproduction remote

Create a remote named hproduction . Here +hproduction+ stand for +heroku production+. This name can be anything. I do not want this name to be +production+ because sometimes it confuses people about which +production+ I am talking about. Also notice that we will be using "cedar stack":http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cedar .

<shell>
heroku create trishil-production --remote hproduction --stack cedar
</shell>

h4. Push code to heroku

Next command might seem a bit confusing. This command is pushing the local production branch to heroku’s hproduction branch.

<shell>
git push hproduction production:master
</shell>

h4. Set Rails environment to production

Set the Rails environment to production by executing following commands.

<shell>
heroku config:add RACK_ENV=production  --app trishil-production
heroku config:add RAILS_ENV=production --app trishil-production
</shell>

Above step is not really needed for +production+ branch but I am adding this step here for the sake of complentess. Let's say that you have +staging+ branch and you are deploying from +staging+ branch. In that case in this step you will set +staging+ as both +RACK_ENV+ and +RAILS_ENV+ .

h4. Setup ssl

Heroku provides free ssl for any `.heroku.com` domain. In this case we can turn on ssl for `http://trishil-production.heroku.com` .

<shell>
heroku addons:add ssl:piggyback --app trishil-staging
</shell>

h4. Set log level to debug

Set the log level to +debug+ to get more information about the application.

<shell>
heroku config:add LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG --app trishil-production
</shell>

When the production app is first deployed then I set the +LOG_LEVEL+ to +debug+ to get more information in the log.

h4. Setup s3

Create bucket for AWS S3. Login at "AWS Management Console":https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/home and create a bucket. The bucket name could be anything like indichai-staging . It is recommended that you do not have a dot in the bucket name. Next configure aws s3 settings in the application.

<shell>
heroku config:add S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx --app trishil-production
heroku config:add S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=xxxxxxxxxx --app trishil-production
heroku config:add S3_BUCKET_NAME=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx --app trishil-production
</shell>

h4. Run migrations

Run migrations by executing following command.

<shell>
heroku run rake db:migrate --app trishil-production
</shell>

h4. Run setup

Configure store with default settings and load products by executing following command.

<shell>
heroku run rake nimbleshop:setup:db --app trishil-production
</shell>

h4. Visting site

Visit staging site at "http://trishil-production.herokuapp.com":http://trishil-production.herokuapp.com .
