h2. Payment status state machine

endprologue.

h3. nimbleShop uses state machine to manage payment status

nimbleShop uses "state machine":https://github.com/pluginaweek/state_machine to manage payment status. The readme of this project is very extensive so read it to better understand what "state machine" does.

h3. State machine in nimbleShop

nimbleShop has following code in <tt>order.rb</tt> .

<shell>
  state_machine :payment_status, initial: :abandoned do

    event(:authorize) { transition abandoned:   :authorized }
    event(:pending)   { transition abandoned:   :pending    }
    event(:kapture )  { transition authorized:  :purchased  }
    event(:refund)    { transition purchased:   :refunded   }

    event(:purchase)  { transition [:abandoned,  :pending] =>  :purchased  }
    event(:void)      { transition [:authorized, :pending] =>  :voided     }

    state all - [ :abandoned ] do
      validates :payment_method, presence: true
    end
  end
</shell>

h3. Payment status related activities

Let's say that we have an order instance. You can inquire that order about the payment status in two different ways.

<shell>

# Inquring about current payment status
> order.payment_status
 => "abandoned"

> order.payment_status_name
 => :abandoned

> order.human_payment_status_name
 => "abandoned"


# First way of inquiring if order belongs to a given state

> order.purchased?
=> false

> order.authorized?
=> false

> order.abandoned?
=> true

# Second way of inquiring if order belongs to a given state

> order.payment_status?(:abandoned)
=> true

> order.payment_status?(:purchased)
=> false
</shell>


We can ask the <tt>order</tt> to what all other states it can go by individually asking for a given event name.

<shell>
> order.can_purchase?
=> true

> order.can_void?
=> false
</shell>

Or we can ask <tt>order</tt> what all possible events that it can act upon in its current state.

<shell>
> order.payment_status_events
=> [:authorize, :pending, :purchase]

# After being acted on events listed above the order can go into following state
> order.payment_status_paths.to_states
=> [:authorized, :purchased, :refunded, :voided, :pending]


> order.payment_status_paths
=> [[#<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:authorize from="abandoned" from_name=:abandoned to="authorized" to_name=:authorized>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:kapture from="authorized" from_name=:authorized to="purchased" to_name=:purchased>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:refund from="purchased" from_name=:purchased to="refunded" to_name=:refunded>], [#<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:authorize from="abandoned" from_name=:abandoned to="authorized" to_name=:authorized>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:void from="authorized" from_name=:authorized to="voided" to_name=:voided>], [#<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:pending from="abandoned" from_name=:abandoned to="pending" to_name=:pending>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:purchase from="pending" from_name=:pending to="purchased" to_name=:purchased>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:refund from="purchased" from_name=:purchased to="refunded" to_name=:refunded>], [#<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:pending from="abandoned" from_name=:abandoned to="pending" to_name=:pending>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:void from="pending" from_name=:pending to="voided" to_name=:voided>], [#<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:purchase from="abandoned" from_name=:abandoned to="purchased" to_name=:purchased>, #<StateMachine::Transition attribute=:payment_status event=:refund from="purchased" from_name=:purchased to="refunded" to_name=:refunded>]]

</shell>

h3. Transitioning to a different state

If  the transtion to a different state fails then the method returns <tt>false</tt> .

<shell>
> order.void
=> false

> order.authorize
=> false
</shell>

The bang version raises an exception.

<shell>
> order.void!
StateMachine::InvalidTransition: Cannot transition payment_status via :void from :abandoned (Reason(s): Payment status cannot transition via "void")

> order.authorize!
StateMachine::InvalidTransition: Cannot transition payment_status via :authorize from :purchased (Reason(s): Payment status cannot transition via "authorize")
</shell>

h3. Before and after transition callback

state manchie also provides before and after transitions callbacks as shown below.

<shell>
before_purchase(order, transition)
before_authorize(order, transition)
before_void(order, transition)

after_purchase(order, transition)
after_authorize(order, transition)
after_void(order, transition)
</shell>
