h2. Testing nimbleShop applications

endprologue.

h3. Running tests in nimbleShop application

nimbleShop uses testing framework provided by Ruby on Rails. If you are not familiar with testing philosophy of Rails then you should read "this execellent guide":http://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html .

In order to run all the tests execute following command

<shell>
rake nimbleshop:setup:test
</shell>

If you are developing nimbleShop and you want to run tests as you make changes then execute following command

<shell>
guard
</shell>

If you are not familiar with  "guard":https://github.com/guard/guard then watch "this episode":http://railscasts.com/episodes/264-guard of Railscasts to get familiar with it.

When guard starts it waits for user to make changes to the file. If you want guard to execute all the tests then hit <strong>shift + enter</strong> .

h3. How to run a single test

If you want to run tests for one single file then execute following command

<shell>
bundle exec ruby -I test  test/unit/product_test.rb
</shell>

h3. Installing firefox for selenium tests


nimbleShop uses selenium for acceptance tests. I found that firefox 11 does not play well with selenium. So here are the steps to follow to get selenium tests running on your machine

* If you are using firefox 11 then uninstall it .
* Download (but do not install) firefox 10 from "http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7468116/Firefox%2010.0.dmg":http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7468116/Firefox%2010.0.dmg .
* Now turn off internet connection .
* Install firefox 10 .
* Open firefox and go to preferences > Advanced > Update . Check the radio button "Never check for updates". Close preference panel .
* Turn internet on .
* Now run tests for selenium .

